Li-ion batteries are being utilized in electric vehicles (EVs), grid-tied load-levelling applications, manned and unmanned aerial vehicles, and other applications. Accurate State of Charge (SOC) estimation is essential to ensuring the safe and dependable operation of Li-ion batteries. The Li-ion battery is monitored and controlled by a battery management system (BMS). One crucial assessment indication of the BMS is the battery state-of-charge (SOC). The SOC signifies the remaining charge available in the battery cells in relation to the battery capacity. However, the battery capacity is not constant as it varies throughout the lifetime of the battery. The battery capacity is also very much dependent on external factors such as ambient temperature, discharge current, battery aging, state of health, the number of charge/discharge cycles, and potentially other factors unaccounted for. Nevertheless, the SOC of the battery must be estimated as accurately as possible to ensure optimal battery performance, lifespan, and safe operation. Numerous works have attempted to tackle the SOC estimation problem. However, these methods have known limitations and have been gradually superseded by more sophisticated methods such as the Deep Feedforward Neural Network (DNN). We assessed two methods to accurately perform State of Charge (SOC) estimation for Li-ion batteries using a recurrent neural network which are the Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) and the Gated Recurrent Unit (GRU). They were both performed under similar training conditions and parameters. LSTM had a clearly lower MSE than the GRU. The LSTM model learnt the battery model better. The LSTM can be recommended over GRU for this type of application. 
